# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

    Anywhere 'Property.new' is used in console.rb

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

    In ths sql variable of the save function.

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

    Property.delete_all()
    property1.save()
    property2.save()
    property3.save()
    property1.delete()


Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

    If there are multiple instances of the same property they would have the same id if done this way, also handled by SQL.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

    During the save function - @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

    To ensure a unique id is created if an otherwise identical record exists.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

    Instance methods are to carry out a function on individual instances; class methods allow you to look at the whole database

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

    Array. Use [0] as it will always be at that index.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

    It prevents SQL insertion hacks by using placeholders in the code.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

    id and address strings.

Q11. What are their return values?

    Object instances
